Printed: 11/09/17

IN CONGRESS, July 4, 1776. 

The unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America, 

When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one
people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them
with another, and to assume among the Powers of the earth, the
separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of
Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect for the opinions of
mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel
them to the separation.


We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty
and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights,
Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed. That whenever any Form of
Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of
the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new
Government, laying its foundation on such principles and
organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most
likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.


Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established
should not be changed for light and transient causes; and
accordingly all experience hath shown, that mankind are more
disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right
themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.
But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing
invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under
absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to
throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their
future security.


-----Glossary -----

1: 1776
2: abolish
3: abolishing
4: absolute
5: abuses
6: accustomed
7: alter
8: america
9: assume
10: bands
11: changed
12: congress
13: connected
14: consent
15: created
16: creator
17: decent
18: declaration
19: declare
20: deriving
21: design
22: despotism
23: destructive
24: dictate
25: disposed
26: dissolve
27: duty
28: earth
29: effect
30: endowed
31: ends
32: entitle
33: equal
34: established
35: events
36: evils
37: evinces
38: experience
39: form
40: forms
41: foundation
42: future
43: governed
44: government
45: governments
46: guards
47: happiness
48: hath
49: hold
50: human
51: impel
52: institute
53: instituted
54: invariably
55: july
56: laws
57: laying
58: liberty
59: life
60: light
61: long
62: mankind
63: nature
64: nature's
65: object
66: opinions
67: organizing
68: people
69: political
70: powers
71: principles
72: provide
73: prudence
74: pursuing
75: pursuit
76: reduce
77: requires
78: respect
79: rights
80: safety
81: secure
82: security
83: self-evident
84: separate
85: separation
86: shown
87: states
88: station
89: suffer
90: sufferable
91: thirteen
92: throw
93: train
94: transient
95: truths
96: unalienable
97: unanimous
98: united
99: usurpations
